The last source of interference you will discuss is communication interference.
In vehicle systems, software elements need to exchange
information both within ECUs and between ECUs.
Even if the sender and receiver have the same ASIL,
there is a need to protect against interference.
Communication channels between software elements
often will have a lower ASIL or a QM rating.
A protected communication channel will detect data transmission errors.
One of the most common mechanisms for ensuring freedom from communication interference,
is called E2E or End to End Protocol.
An E2E Protocol can help protect against communication falls due to hardware,
software, and electromagnetic interference.
The protocol checks that data was not corrupted during transmission.
This way, when there is data corruption that could violate the safety goal,
the vehicle can be led to a safe state.
In the lane departure warning example,
we had a technical safety requirement that could be
solved with an E2E protection mechanism.
One requirement was that a vanity and integrity of
the data transmission of the LDW torque request signal shall be ensured.
In the text below,
we will show you how to refine this requirement into software safety requirements.